Supported and tested on Chrome and Firefox


Always in development: Gearbox is a car metrics application that allows you to interpret drving and location data gathered from various sensors in your smartphone.  Wheather you're looking to improve your racing skills, test the quality of a roadway, or anything in-between, Gearbox is a fun and accurate way to analyze your vehicles every move.  View and manipulate the data in a number of useful ways, customize and dynamically print reports of the behavior of your vehicle, even upload a video for reference. (Available sensor data listed at the bottom of this document)
    
  Want to skip the complicated stuff and go strait for a demo? Once you enter the site, you will see a button on the left that says "Demo All Data". This will allow you to see the program run with a preloaded set of data, and without having to enter setup parameters in the input fields.



1 - **YOU WILL ONLY NEED TO FOLLOW THE SETUP PROCEDURE FOR YOUR HANDSET ONCE**

2 - ***Gathering your own data requires a download from the Google Play Store onto your Android handset. ***

3 - navigate to the Google play store

4 - Download AndroSensor

5 - Go to settings (top right) and scroll down to Active Sensors.  Uncheck BATTERY STATUS, GPS NMEA $GPGGA, and GPS NMEA*, click ok.

6 - (Scroll to the top) Set desired language and font size

6 - Set Distance Unit to imperial

8 - Set GYROSCOPE to rad/s

9 - Set desired temperature setting

10 - Set luminocity unit to lux

11 - Set atmospheric pressure unit to hPa

12 - Set Location to n.n N/S - e.e W/E

13 - Set accelerometer coordinates to device coordinates

14 - Set speed unit to miles per hour

15 - Set graph height to small

16 - Set graph values to 100

17 - Set barometer altitude to disabled

18 - Scroll down and check 'lock orientation' and 'keep screen on'

19 - Set Sound Level Calibration to 80 dB

20 - Set File Format to CSV, and check the ',' box

21 - SET RECORDING INTERVAL TO (.01 s) - YOU MAY HAVE CHECK THE 'fast' BOX

22 - You will be presented with several different options to save and export the sensor data in CSV format.  You can either auto-email the CSV, or have it saved locally to the phone.  Make your choice, you are not limited to only one option.

23 - Exit settings


***START LOGGING DATA***

24 - Pressing the down arrow next to the wrench at the top of the app will open a small side window that allows you to start logging data.  Place the handset on a flat and secure (enough) surface so it doesn't move around, and click red record button when ready.

25 - When you are done logging data, hit the red stop button and the CSV will be saved/uploaded automatically.  
	Later on you will be able to choose start and stop times to view your data, but I recommend splitting your sessions up into smaller chunks.  
  		Although Gearbox is meant for cars, feel free to strap your handset to an ATV or mountain bike and see what happens, after all, Gearbox started with a swingset, and a little curiocity!

14 - Upload CSV file (and optional video) to Gearbox and see instructions page on how to use the app tools. 

NOTE: email chaseterzian@gmail.com with questions or support requests for different data logging apps



***PLAY WITH THE DATA***

The input fields in the middle of the screen are able to accept user defined values, which control many different functions, and are outlined in the 'Instructions' section in the Gearbox app. Don't worry about leaving certain fields (or all) blank - they will automatically use the fallback settings. Feel free to move back and forth between the different rooms in the Testing Area without affecting the data flow.  At any time you may pause or reload the data stream. You can also click 'Show My Report' to see the data being dynamically generated that relates to your 'Report Trip' inputs. 

***User CSV upload is currently under construction, but will be functional again shortly. See 'Instructions' located at the top right side of the 'Testing Area' for further information.***



Available Sensor Data:
_____________________

0 - ACCELEROMETER X (m/s²)
-0.1513

1 - ACCELEROMETER Y (m/s²)
-0.3475

2 - ACCELEROMETER Z (m/s²)
9.9794

3 - GRAVITY X (m/s²)
-0.0926

4 - GRAVITY Y (m/s²)
-0.3462

5 - GRAVITY Z (m/s²)
9.8001

6 - LINEAR ACCELERATION X (m/s²)
-0.071

7 - LINEAR ACCELERATION Y (m/s²)
-0.0628

8 - LINEAR ACCELERATION Z (m/s²)
-0.0265

9 - GYROSCOPE X (°/s)
-0.34

10 - GYROSCOPE Y (°/s)
0.18

11 -  GYROSCOPE Z (°/s)
1.63
12 - LIGHT (lux)
15071.0

13 - MAGNETIC FIELD X (μT)
122.0

14 - MAGNETIC FIELD Y (μT)
77.46

15 - MAGNETIC FIELD Z (μT)
91.8

16 - ORIENTATION Z (azimuth °)
303.16

17 - ORIENTATION X (pitch °)
2.03

18 - ORIENTATION Y (roll °)
0.45

19 - PROXIMITY (i)
2.0

20 -ATMOSPHERIC PRESSURE (hPa)
812.3

21 - SOUND LEVEL (dB)
48.297

22 - LOCATION Latitude :
40.034935

23 - LOCATION Longitude :
-105.34338

24 - LOCATION Altitude ( m)
5932.26

25 - LOCATION Altitude-google ( m)
NaN

26 - LOCATION Altitude-atmospheric pressure ( m)
,

27 - LOCATION Speed ( Mph)
5.62

28 - LOCATION Accuracy ( m)
41.935486

29 - LOCATION ORIENTATION (°)
112.4

30 - Satellites in range
15 / 25

31 - Time since start in ms
444

32 - YYYY-MO-DD

33 - HH-

34 - MI-

35 - SS_

36 - SSS

Fiv Asim, developer of AndroSensor
http://www.superiorwallpapers.com/ for the Testing Area image
(Powered By Android:)